docs(readme): rewrite (#846)
renovatebot/github-action: README.md

## Options

You can pass options with either:

- The inputs of this action.
- Or, with the corresponding Renovate self-hosted environment variables.

> [!NOTE]
> When you provide an input _and_ a environment variable, _the input is used_ over the enviroment variable!

See the full list of environment variables in the [Renovate docs, Self-Hosted Configuration](https://docs.renovatebot.com/self-hosted-configuration/).

### `configurationFile`

Configuration file to configure Renovate ("global" config) in JavaScript or JSON format.

We recommend you avoid names that match repository configuration filenames listed in the Renovate Docs for [Configuration Options](https://docs.renovatebot.com/configuration-options/).

You can find configuration examples in the [example directory](./example).

The configurations that can be done in this file consists of two parts, as listed below.
Refer to the links to the [Renovate Docs](https://docs.renovatebot.com/) for all options.

1. [Self-Hosted Configuration Options](https://docs.renovatebot.com/self-hosted-configuration/)
2. [Configuration Options](https://docs.renovatebot.com/configuration-options/)

> You must set the [`branchPrefix`](https://docs.renovatebot.com/configuration-options/#branchprefix) to a different value than the default!

Author: ```suggestion
If you want to use the Mend Renovate app _and_ this `renovatebot/github-action`, then you must set the [`branchPrefix`](https://docs.renovatebot.com/configuration-options/#branchprefix) to a different value than the default!
```

> This prevents interference with the Mend Renovate app (app you can install into GitHub), or other apps.

Author: ```suggestion
This prevents interference with the Mend Renovate app, or other apps.
```

> If you want to use this (?????What does `this` refer to in this sentence?????) with just the single configuration file, make sure to include the following two configuration lines.

Author: ```suggestion
If you want to use a single configuration file, make sure to include the following two configuration lines.
```

Uses the JavaScript regex syntax.

Read the [Passing other environment variables](#passing-other-environment-variables) section to learn more.

## `mount-docker-socket`

Default to `false`.

If set to `true` the action mounts the Docker socket inside the Renovate container, so that the commands can use Docker.
Can be useful for `postUpgradeTasks`'s commands.
Also add the user inside the Renovate container to the Docker group for socket permissions.

### `token`

[Generate a Personal Access Token (classic)](https://github.com/settings/tokens):

1. Give it the `repo:public_repo` scope for public repositories.
2. _Or_ give it the `repo` scope for public and private repositories.
3. Add it to _Secrets_ (repository settings) as `RENOVATE_TOKEN`.

You can also create a token with no specific scope, which gives read-only access to public repositories, for testing.
This token is only used by Renovate, see the [token configuration](https://docs.renovatebot.com/self-hosted-configuration/#token), and gives it access to the repositories.
The name of the secret can be anything, as long as it matches the argument given to the `token` option.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

### `env-regex`

Use `env-regex` to set which environment variables are passed to the Renovate container.
Uses the regex syntax.

Read the [Passing other environment variables](#passing-other-environment-variables) section to learn more.

## `mount-docker-socket`

Default to `false`.

If set to `true` the action mounts the Docker socket inside the Renovate container, so that the commands can use Docker.
Can be useful for `postUpgradeTasks`'s commands.
Also add the user inside the Renovate container to the Docker group for socket permissions.

### `token`

[Generate a Personal Access Token (classic)](https://github.com/settings/tokens):

1. Give it the `repo:public_repo` scope for public repositories.
2. _Or_ give it the `repo` scope for public and private repositories.
3. Add it to _Secrets_ (repository settings) as `RENOVATE_TOKEN`.

You can also create a token with no specific scope, which gives read-only access to public repositories, for testing.
This token is only used by Renovate, see the [token configuration](https://docs.renovatebot.com/self-hosted-configuration/#token), and gives it access to the repositories.

> The name of the secret can be anything, as long as it matches the argument given to the `token` option.

Reviewer: https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-guides/using-secrets-in-github-actions#naming-your-secrets

> The name of the secret can be anything, as long as it matches the argument given to the `token` option.

Author: ```suggestion
When naming your secret, follow the rules from the [GitHub Docs, naming your secrets](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-guides/using-secrets-in-github-actions#naming-your-secrets).
The name of the secret must match the argument given to the `token` option.
```

> Renovate can _not_ use [Fine-grained Personal Access Tokens](https://github.com/settings/tokens?type=beta) as they do not support the GitHub GraphQL API.

Author: ```suggestion
```

## Environment Variables

> To pass through environment variables through to the Docker container that powers this action, you must prefix the environment variable with `RENOVATE_`.

Author: ```suggestion
If you wish to pass environment variables to the Docker container that powers this action, prefix the environment variable with `RENOVATE_`.
```

Is this what you want?

> To pass through environment variables through to the Docker container that powers this action, you must prefix the environment variable with `RENOVATE_`.

Reviewer: no, remove the prefix suggestion completely. I know it's going worse for now but I don't like to suggest a totally wrong configuration.

we can leave the sample for now, or maybe better also remove it. I'll probably doing some changes when I'm back at work.

> To pass through environment variables through to the Docker container that powers this action, you must prefix the environment variable with `RENOVATE_`.

Author: I'll let you push the changes to my branch then! 😉

> To pass through environment variables through to the Docker container that powers this action, you must prefix the environment variable with `RENOVATE_`.

Reviewer: then it has to wait until next week. ⛱️🍹

## Environment Variables

> To pass through environment variables through to the Docker container that powers this action, you must prefix the environment variable with `RENOVATE_`.

Reviewer: 🤔 We should change that, as these variables can interfere with renovate config options 🤔 . Better to use a custom prefix and add it to the `env-regex`.

Reviewer: yes

Author: I'll let someone else fix up the readme, see issue:

https://github.com/renovatebot/github-action/issues/850

    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v3

>       # This third-party Action allows you to download the cache artifact from different workflow runs

Author: Can users now use GitHub's official `actions/cache`? Newer versions may have fixed problems we had before?

- https://github.com/renovatebot/github-action/issues/827
- https://github.com/renovatebot/github-action/issues/646

Reviewer: yes, but i newer used this action, so don't now how to write this section.

Author: I don't understand it enough either. We already have an issue about updating the instructions to use the official `actions/cache` GitHub Action.

I'm resolving this review comment, as I can't fix it up myself. :wink:

Reviewer 2: See https://github.com/renovatebot/github-action/issues/646#issuecomment-2465543441 for an example.

          mkdir -p $cache_dir
          tar -xzf cache-download/$cache_archive -C $cache_dir

          # Unfortunately, the permissions expected within Renovate's Docker container
          # are different than the ones given after the cache is restored. We must
          # change ownership to solve this. We also must have the correct permissions in
          # the entire /tmp/renovate tree, not just the section with the repo cache.
          sudo chown -R runneradmin:root /tmp/renovate/

>           ls -R $cache_dir

Reviewer 2: This seems to no longer work. On the other hand, there is now a `docker-user` option.

I am now using the following:
```yaml
      - name: Determine current user
        id: id
        run: |
          echo "user=$(id -u)" >> $GITHUB_OUTPUT
          echo "group=$(id -g)" >> $GITHUB_OUTPUT
      - uses: renovatebot/github-action@v40.3.4
        with:
          configurationFile: renovate.json5
          token: ${{ secrets.RENOVATE_TOKEN }}
          renovate-version: 37.421.3
          # used to mount cache
          docker-user: "${{ steps.id.outputs.user }}:${{ steps.id.outputs.group }}"
          docker-volumes: |
            /tmp/renovate/cache:/tmp/renovate/cache
        env:
          # This enables the cache -- if this is set, it's not necessary to add it to renovate.json.
          RENOVATE_REPOSITORY_CACHE: ${{ github.event.inputs.repoCache || 'enabled' }}
```
